---
title: 'Week Seven'
date: 2023-10-23
permalink: /posts/2023/10/blog-post-7/
tags:
  - research
  - my honors project
---

This is the seventh blog post for my honors thesis.

# Contents

- [Tasks Completed](#tasks)
- [Augmentation of Crash Data](#crash)
- [Attempting to Augment Diabetes Data](#diabetes)
  - Tried to SMOTE, but did not work
- [Began to Apply to NCUR](#ncur)
- [Made a Calendar for a Timeline](#calendar)
- [Questions](#questions)
- [Goals](#Goals)


---


<a name="tasks"></a>
# Tasks Completed 

- Read a paper using variational autoencoders to generate minority examples in crash data
- Based on this paper, I attempted to create similar visuals and methods in another dataset (Indian Diabetes)
- Began working on the application for NCUR
- Made a calendar for the remainder of the semester

---


<a name="crash"></a>
# Crash Paper
- Read [this](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S000145752031770X?ref=pdf_download&fr=RR-2&rr=81ab2e38edea424f) paper titled "Crash Data Augmentation using Variational Autoencoders."
- This paper focused on the use of VAE's as a data augmentation technique to produce crash data (500 vs. 5 million observations imbalanced data)
- Compared to SMOTE, a GAN, and ADASYN
- Used some 80% confident ellipsoid method (**not sure what this meant, but looked cool**)
- This paper explained the reason behind oversampling and VAE's very well.
- Interesting graphs to compare synthetic and real data
  - Box and whiskers to compare the mean and standard deviation across real/synthetic and ALL (or most) columns
  - Used violin plots to visualize the data distributions across columns (**I really enjoyed this**)
  - Displayed, using a table, the mean, max, min, std, and results from three stats test (t-test, levene test, ks-test)
- Compared the results using a confusion matrix of LR, ANN, and SVM
- Reported specificity and sensitivity

<a name="diabetes"></a>
# Diabetes Data
- Pima Indians Diabetes is a common dataset used to study imbalaned data (result variable is 268 out of 500).
  - Less imbalanced than other datasets, but still good to study
  - Has continous **and** discrete variables (UCI Adult is all discrete, leading me to choose this). 
- Question driving this: **Can I implement some of the visualizations/techniques in the crash paper, train the TVAE, and test its ability to generate minority class data?**
- This week I primarily focused on creating violin plots to generate this question in R.
- *I will show all of the violin plots generated at the weekly Monday meeting. 

<a name="ncur"></a>
# NCUR
- Below is a timeline for the NCUR application
- Once we have results from Linear Interpolation methods within the next ~two weeks, I'll write an abstract

Timeline
| Date | Days    | 
| :---:   | :---: |
| November 3 | Fill out the NCUR Travel Grant application (need abstract)   | 
| November 27 | Funding Application Approved   | 
| December 8 | Submit abstract to NCUR   | 


<a name="calendar"></a>
# Calendar

| Week | Days    | Content    |
| :---:   | :---: | :---: |
| Eight | October 24 - 30   | Research Linear Interpolation Methods   |
| Nine | October 31 - November 6   | Implement Linear Interpolation Methods   |
| Ten | November 7 - 13   | Research Geometric Interpolation Methods   |
| Eleven | November 14 - 20   | Implement Geometric Interpolation Methods  |
| Twelve | November 21 - 27   | Compare results from all linear and geometric using KS-test, t-test, etc.  |
| Thirteen | November 28 - December 4   | Write a report on the topic discussed above, fill out end-of-semester report, etc.   |





<a name="questions"></a>
# Questions Raised
- When I linearly interpolated from the minority class and ran it through the decoder of the TVAE, I was given observations in the minority class. Why did this happen? I assume it is due to randomness.
- Now that I am applying to NCUR, should I amp up the technical language?

<a name="moving"></a>
# Moving Forward

## Short-Term Goals
- Read papers on Linear Interpolation within the next week
- As I read papers on Linear Interpolation, report the metrics and visuals


## Long-Term Goals
- Apply to NCUR
- Stay on the timeline.
