---
title: 'Week Five'
date: 2023-10-09
permalink: /posts/2023/10/blog-post-5/
tags:
  - research
  - my honors project
---

This is the fifth blog post for my honors thesis. It is the last post before the thesis is proposed!

# Contents

- [Tasks Completed](#tasks)
- [Completed Narrative (and other documents)](#narative)
- [Implemented Discriminator to the Latent Space of TVAE](#discrim)
- [Questions](#questions)
- [Goals moving forward](#moving)

---


<a name="tasks"></a>
# Tasks Completed 
- Attented Honors workshop to gain feedback for thesis
- Completed Thesis Narrative (needs one final look over)
- Completed thesis approval form
- Implemented a discriminator in the latent space of TVAE, *I think*
- Joined a Kaggle Competition for fun and practice with decision trees, where I'm 0.00134% off first place (*note: this is not included in the blog post, but thought it was relevant enough*)

---

<a name="narrative"></a>
# Narrative
- Gained feedback at honors workshop. This feedback included:
  - Explaining bagging, boosting, and other technical aspects before introducing them
  - Including the timeline within the methods sections (i.e. I will do this in the fall of 2023)
  - Explicitly state the research question in the main goal, and expand the main goal to two paragraphs
  - Be more specific in the final product, have high goals
  - Break down sections into subsections
  - Don't use big words
- Implemented all the feedback into the narrative. The (hopefully) final narrative was included in the email.
- Other forms:
  - Completed the thesis approval form (*timeline, budget, signatures, abstract, etc.*)


<a name="discrim"></a>
# Discriminator in Latent Space
- In the previous week, we discussed a VAE designed to generate images of numbers (nine classes).
- In this VAE, a discriminator was used in the latent space to seperate the classes.
- The idea of a discriminator in the latent space can be applied to two things: *the target attribute and the sensitive attribute*
- I was able to include a discriminator in the latent space for the target attribute, but I am not sure if I did it right. The loss function for the discriminator never changed.
- **We will review this code today, if time permits after reviewing the narrative**


<a name="questions"></a>
# Questions Raised
- In the narrative and timeline, I discussed comparing all the generative models for tabular data. Should I continue with this, allowing a part of the paper to be a survey of generative tabular models (*which probably could be a paper by itself*)
- The narrative is slightly too long (roughly 2 pages too long). Should I care? I personally do not, but should I?
- Would a discriminator for fairness in CTGAN be easier than the TVAE? I imagine it would be.
- Do I make a new discriminator every batch for TVAE (see code)? Where do I make and fit the discriminator.

<a name="moving"></a>
# Moving Forward

## Short-Term Goals
- Submit proposal by Wednesday
- Get proposal approved and hopefully get accepted (**no revise and resubmit**).
- 

## Long-Term Goals
- Apply to NCUR
  - Travel grant application by November 3
- Apply discriminator to TVAE/CTGAN for Fairness
- Compare different Tabular generative models (CTGAN, TVAE, MedGAN, etc.) in a more emperical way and write a 'lil paper on it. 
