---
title: 'Week Three'
date: 2024-09-19
permalink: /posts/2024/09/blog-post-26/
tags:
  - research
  - my honors project
---

Fixing the VAE - among other things. 

# Contents

- [Tasks Completed](#tasks)
- Fixed Loss Curve
- Implemented Weird Architecture (a *supervised* VAE)
- [Timeline](#calendar)
- [Goals](#moving)


---


<a name="tasks"></a>
# Tasks Completed 
- Found Second committee member
  - Dr. Mattfeld agreed to be the second committee member.
- Fixed Loss Curve
- Implemented new Architecture
  - Investigated BCE and problems associated with it
 
# Fixed Loss Curve

Last week it seemed that the loss curve or our VAE was flipped - starting at 0 and working it's way up. 
This was due to two reasons:

- Did not multiply the KL-divergence by -0.5. I multiplied it by 0.5, affecting the KL-loss.
- Did not reduce the MSE properly. Used the wrong sum function, *who knew that could happen*?

Now, the loss curves of the VAE's look like they should. 

# New Architecture

Last week, we discussed a new architecture, designed to seperate the latent space better. Here is a description:

- From the hidden layer of the decoder, attach a second layer designed to predict what class the representation belongs to
- Use the prediction from a sigmoid layer and Binary Cross Entropy (BCE) to help train the VAE - helping the representation seperate minority vs majority class examples.

Upon a first test, this appears to slightly improve a VAE. However, BCE performs poorly with imbalanced data. Can we use the sampling methods previosuly implemented to fix this issue?

- Applying SMOTE on the training data appears to seperate the latent space very well - clear areas for minority and majority class examples.
- Will show in meeting today - done on 'ecoli' dataset. 






<a name="calendar"></a>
# Calendar

| Week | Days    | Content    | 
| :---:   | :---: | :---: |
| Week Four | September 20 - September 26 | Write abstract for CCSE, make plans for second step (Sampling in latent space), proved why the sVAE w/ Sampling is better than the VAE  |
| Week Five | September 27 - October 3 | Outline plan for thesis and begin work for presentations of progress. |


<a name="questions"></a>
# Questions Raised
- Is the sampling with a Supervised VAE a valid idea?

<a name="moving"></a>
# Moving Forward
## Short-Term Goals
- Write abstract for CCSC-SE
- Make plan for Sampling in Latent Space

## Long-Term Goals
- Stay in accordance with the calendar
- Prepare for presentations of progress
