---
title: 'Week Ten'
date: 2024-04-23
permalink: /posts/2024/03/blog-post-22/
tags:
  - research
  - my honors project
---

A productive week. 

# Contents

- [Tasks Completed](#tasks)
- [Timeline](#calendar)
- [Goals](#moving)


---


<a name="tasks"></a>
# Tasks Completed 
- Last week, we set out a plan to implement new metrics and go back to VAESMOTE, with and without adversarial learning
- [Implemented new Metric](#metric)
- [Found new Datasets](#datasets)
- [Continued to work on SURF Presentation](#surf)
- [Continued to write introduction for research paper](#paper)
- [Got some good results!](#results)

<a name="metric"></a>
# Implemented new Metric
- Last week we discussed implementing new metric such as AUC or Gmean
- This week, I implemented Gmean.
- Gmean is a metric of fairness used in imbalanced learning to see if a classifier predicts a label equally for all values
- The Gmean in the few expermients run is not the best, but not the worst

<a name="datasets"></a>
# Better Datasets
- The previous library, common_datasets (which extends from the imbalanced datasets used previously), was poor for our purposes
  - Contained missing values
- imblearn has a function, fetch_datasets, that seems much more promising.
- Seems more reasonable to use datasets from the imbalance learning library!

# SURF Presentation
- Continued to work on SURF presentation.
- Should I include results? How should I include preliminary results if so?

<a name="paper"></a>
# Continued Writing Paper
- I continuted to work on the introduction for a research paper.
- Discussed imbalanced learning and its impact on classification models

<a name="results"></a>
# Got new results
- This past week, after implementing Gmean, I fixed some errors in VAESMOTE and was able to get good results!
- Implemented adversarial VAESMOTE (AVAESMOTE).
  - Shows **a lot** of promise. Sometimes gets really good numbers, sometimes mediocre, and sometimes ok. I wonder if it is converging?


<a name="calendar"></a>
# Calendar

| Week | Days    | Content    | 
| :---:   | :---: | :---: |
| This week! | April 23 - April 29 | Finish and Practice SURF presentation, get results and examine them |


<a name="questions"></a>
# Questions Raised
- How is our method different from DeepSMOTE?
  - I have theories I'm going to talk about today
  
<a name="moving"></a>
# Moving Forward

## Short-Term Goals
- Get ready to SURF

## Long-Term Goals
- Get results
