---
title: 'Week Nine'
date: 2024-04-09
permalink: /posts/2024/03/blog-post-20/
tags:
  - research
  - my honors project
---

A productive week. 

# Contents

- [Tasks Completed](#tasks)
- [Timeline](#calendar)
- [Goals](#moving)


---


<a name="tasks"></a>
# Tasks Completed 
- [Won a grant!](#grant)
- [Implemented a new, and better, version of VaDE](#vade)
- [Continued to work on SURF Presentation](#surf)
- [Began to write introduction for research paper](#paper)

<a name="grant"></a>
# Grant Won!
Information about the grant and it's requirements:
- Rawls Grant: $1,500
- Expected to be registered for 4998/4999 for two semesters in 2024-2025.
- May be asked to join in discussing your work at admissions or other events.
- Will be emailed later this fall to get an abstract and photo to share with the donor families.
- Required to present at the Spring Undergraduate Research Forum (SURF) in the spring of 2025 or 2026.
- Beginning June 1st, 2024, all investigators within our institution—comprising faculty, staff, undergraduate and graduate students, principals, and co-investigators—must have completed CITI training. 

<a name="vade"></a>
# A Better, and working VaDE Implementation
- Last week, we realized our implementation of VaDE did not entirely work (the means were not moving)
- This week, I used a new implementation of VaDE that better and more explicitly defined the means as a parameter within the model.
- Got it working on MNIST Data, then tabular data
- Preliminary results on tabular data show that it has an ability to cluster minority/majority classes well
  - Will implement discriminator on April 16 (hopefully before the meeting) to further the clustering ability of the model
- What are the following interpretations of the model:
  - What does each cluster mean? Does it mean that this cluster follows a different generation process/pattern?
  - What do majority examples within the minority cluster, and vice-versa mean? Are these noisy, and bad examples?
- Will further work on generation of the model, incorporating it within experiments, creating visualization (i.e. gifs), etc. 

# SURF Presentation
- I want to first talk about variational autoencoders, the theory behind them (isotropic one distribution) and talk about the model we implemented and why it may be better for our problem.
- Does this make sense?
- Should my results be primarily visual or tabular?

<a name="paper"></a>
# Began Writing Paper
- While the new VaDE model was training on MNIST (which takes a while), I started putting together a very rough draft of the research paper.
- Examined prior papers written at CCSC-SE and modeled it after them, particularly the one you (Dr. Spurlock) wrote on adversarial fairness, with modifications.
- In the meeting, I'll provide what I have so far (a couple intro paragraphs) to make sure I am at the right level of language.
- The papers are due in mid-June, so why not start introduction and related works now (using the grant application), and write the results and conclusion whn they come in? (my thoughts, don't know how much time I can contribute while doing my internship, so want as much done before then)
- 


<a name="calendar"></a>
# Calendar

| Week | Days    | Content    | 
| :---:   | :---: | :---: |
| This Upcoming | April 16-April 22 | Implement Adversarial VaDE, VaDE within experiments, and finish SURF presentation |
| Week after next | April 23 - April 29 | Finish and Practice SURF presentation, get results and examine them |


<a name="questions"></a>
# Questions Raised
- Should we SMOTE with AVaDE or another method?
  - I think we could compare the generation ability of AVaDE to a regular VAE very easily which would be an interesting point and result if we "SMOTED" both. 
- What in the world could we spend the money on?

<a name="moving"></a>
# Moving Forward

## Short-Term Goals
- Implement the adversary right.
- Put AVaDE in experiments file.

## Long-Term Goals
- Get presentations ready
