---
title: 'Week Four'
date: 2024-09-26
permalink: /posts/2024/09/blog-post-27/
tags:
  - research
  - my honors project
---

Abstract writing!

# Contents

- [Tasks Completed](#tasks)
- Compared reconstruction of VAE vs sVAE
- Compared latent representation of VAE vs sVAE
- Wrote abstract
- [Timeline](#calendar)
- [Goals](#moving)


---


<a name="tasks"></a>
# Tasks Completed 
- Investigated reconstruction
- Investigated latent representation
- Wrote abstract for CCSC-SE
 
# Reconstruction

Using ecoli data, I compared the reconstruction of the proposed sVAE vs the traditional VAE. Then, I made a cool graph of the principal components and distributions. 

I conclude that (in this data at least) there is no significant difference in reconstruction for the sVAE vs VAE. 

# Latent Representation

Using ecoli data, I compared the latent representation of the VAE vs the sVAE. The minority examples in the VAE were less defined. They would often appear in random spaces with the majority data. However, the sVAE appears to tackle this problem. This minority examples are in a much more defined space, which should help when sampling.  

I conclude that (in this data at least) the latent representation is better for the sVAE. 


# Abstract
Wrote a draft for the abstract. Slightly too long. We'll cut some information in our meeting. 


<a name="calendar"></a>
# Calendar

| Week | Days    | Content    | 
| :---:   | :---: | :---: |
| Week Four | September 20 - September 26 | Write abstract for CCSE, make plans for second step (Sampling in latent space), proved why the sVAE w/ Sampling is better than the VAE  |
| Week Five | September 27 - October 3 | Outline plan for thesis and begin work for presentations of progress. |


<a name="questions"></a>
# Questions Raised
- 
<a name="moving"></a>
# Moving Forward
## Short-Term Goals
- Write some thesis
- Make plan for Sampling in Latent Space

## Long-Term Goals
- Stay in accordance with the calendar
- Prepare for presentations of progress
