---
title: 'Week Four'
date: 2024-02-27
permalink: /posts/2024/02/blog-post-15/
tags:
  - research
  - my honors project
---

Promising results and images developed in the past week!

# Contents

- [Tasks Completed](#tasks)
- [Timeline](#calendar)
- [Goals](#moving)


---


<a name="tasks"></a>
# Tasks Completed 
- Came up with a potential denoising idea
  - **If we can make our VAE discriminative and denoising, we can call it a 2D-VAE, which is cool cuase we're using tabular data**
- Generative minority oversampling for crescent data
- Generative minority oversampling for ecoli data
- Generative minority oversampling for iris data
  - For all three datasets above, good looking images and graphs are shown to demonstrate our capabilities
  - We can generate outside the convex hull and along the decision boundary
- Results across six datasets
  - Our method is competitive, and better on some datasets and models.  



# Ecoli, Crescent, and Iris Data
For Crescent data, a VAE was trained and I used KNNOR to oversample examples in the minority space. The decision boundary was better approximated. Note: this tended to generate more examples in the convex hull of the minority examples.

For Iris and Ecoli data, I examined a Seaborn 2D KDE plot and generated examples using a mean and standard deviation that was between each sample. This was able to generate examples along the decision boundary and along the convex hull. 


<a name="calendar"></a>
# Calendar

*What we're gonna plan*

| Week | Days    | Content    | Checked |
| :---:   | :---: | :---: | :---: |





<a name="questions"></a>
# Questions Raised
- What should the abstract look like for SURF?

<a name="moving"></a>
# Moving Forward

## Short-Term Goals
- Finish SURF abstract


## Long-Term Goals
- Get discriminator in VAE
