---
title: 'Week Five'
date: 2024-10-03
permalink: /posts/2024/09/blog-post-28/
tags:
  - research
  - my honors project
---

Chill week!

# Contents

- [Tasks Completed](#tasks)
- [Timeline](#calendar)
- [Goals](#moving)


---


<a name="tasks"></a>
# Tasks Completed 
- Finalized and turned in abstract for CCSC-SE
- Did my job interview (spent lots of time re-learning SQL)
- Began preparing (SW-design) for the sampling in latent space

# Thesis Planning
- Introduction
  - Imbalanced Data
    - Why it occurs, effects (use visuals), and current methods to tackle this (SMOTE, OS), along with their weaknesses
  - Generative AI
    - What is it, models that do this, how they work, and how they can help us with imbalanced data
    - Have a section purely for VAE's
- Methods
  - Introduce datasets as well as the metrics of the datasets (number of features, imbalanced ratio)
  - Introduce our flavor of the VAE
      - Discuss metrics to compare our VAE vs vanilla VAE
  - Introduce SMOTE in the latent space
      - Show algorithm
  - Compare our method to SMOTE, Borderline SMOTE, oversampling, etc. Across datasets and metrics.
 
# The supervised VAE
How de we determine our s-VAE is better for our case than the VAE using metrics?

Thoughts (quantitavley):
  - Compare reconstruction of minority vs majority across datasets (measures reconstruction)
  - Compare average distance between examples of the same class
    - Compare area of hull would also be cool - don't know how to do this, but it would be very interesting
  - Use a classifier to predict real vs. fake - can they tell what examples are real? if not, we are probably doing a good job

Thoughts (qualitativley):

  - I like using the PCA for reconstruction
  - Using histogram to show MSE would also be interesting
  - LDA/PCA in latent space is interesting - LDA is interesting because it would be one line
  - Showing distribution of latent features would also be cool - show KDE of each latent feature - displays differences between minority vs. majority


<a name="calendar"></a>
# Calendar

| Week | Days    | Content    | 
| :---:   | :---: | :---: |
| Week Six | October 3 - October 10 | Begin implementing sampling strategy in latent space. |
| Week Six | October 10 - October 17 | Outline plan for thesis writing and begin work for presentations of progress. |
| Week Six | October 17 - October 24 | Finish presentation for presentations of progress.  |




<a name="questions"></a>
# Questions Raised
- How are the ideas presented above?
<a name="moving"></a>
# Moving Forward
## Short-Term Goals
- Write first part of thesis for fall break
- Begin sampling in latent space

## Long-Term Goals
- Stay in accordance with the calendar
- Prepare for presentations of progress
