---
title: 'Week Twelve'
date: 2024-05-07
permalink: /posts/2024/03/blog-post-23/
tags:
  - research
  - my honors project
---

SURF and more. 

# Contents

- [Tasks Completed](#tasks)
- [Timeline](#calendar)
- [Goals](#moving)


---


<a name="tasks"></a>
# Tasks Completed 
- [Presented at SURF](#SURF)
- [Made new visualizations to display results](#visual)
- [Got new results with precision, recall, and adversary (good results, not really for adversary)](#results)


<a name="SURF"></a>
# Presented at SURF

Last week, I presented at SURF. Below are the lists of pros and cons of my presentation, for reflection. 

Pros:
  - I think I explained imbalanced learning well
  - Visuals for imbalanced learrning and VAE
    
Cons:
  - Visuals for results
  - Could have explained the latent space better (mentioned it's basically non-linear PCA)
  - Could have used less text

<a name="visual"></a>
# Made new Visuals

After the visual-gate of 2024, I went to RStudio and played around with different visuals we could use to how results. Will show the visuals in the meeting today, but here are two options (previously discussed) and their pros/cons.

Bar Chart:
  - Pros: Can easily see which one performs best by looking at height
  - Cons: Cannot see spread. We want to display the randomness and inconsistency of our method. 

Violin Plot:
  - Pros: Can see spread of each method. However, this doesn't look that good or interesting with the current limited number of datasets and folds.
  - Cons: Can't easily tell what methods outperform others. Better than the density plots, but similar. 

<a name="results"></a>
# Results
With these new visuals, I decided to get a new batch of results (which takes a hot minute) with new additions, such as the adversarial VAE, recall, and precision. The results were similar to the previous, and maybe ever-so-slightly better. This makes sense because I doubled the size of each hidden layer. We'll discuss those todat. 

<a name="calendar"></a>
# Calendar

| Week | Days    | Content    | 
| :---:   | :---: | :---: |
| This week! | May 7 - May 13 | HNR 4498 Report, Paper Summaries per Grading Contract |
| After this week | May 13 - TBD | Write paper for conference |


<a name="questions"></a>
# Questions Raised
- What should the structure of the paper look like. I've looked at the template and other papers, but what order should we adress points in. Additionally, what language should be used. And one more, what visuals to use?

<a name="moving"></a>
# Moving Forward

## Short-Term Goals
- Get paper summaries. 


## Long-Term Goals
- Write paper 
